um it is my pleasure to be able to spend
a couple minutes with you to introduce
you to another incredibly important
session here as a developer conference
focusing on the Mac os10 product but in
particular the server oriented version
and a number of the great capabilities
that will be bringing to the market this
is not a product disclosure opportunity
we're going to talk about a number that
the critically important technologies
and I'll give you a good road map where
you can plan your product development
and see just the whole server strategy
at Apple I introduce the Mac os10
overview on Monday afternoon after the
keynote and I think it's incredibly
appropriate to introduce and talk about
the server product because at Apple you
know it truly is the case that we're
going to build a better personal
computer by focusing on both the desktop
as well as the network connectivity and
the services that a server can provide
so the the agenda for today is pretty
straightforward and very simple we want
to press upon you the fact that the user
experience in the 21st century clearly
involves a high degree of internet and
network integration it's essential for
all of our key target markets from
education both k12 and higher ed the
creative professional community and even
increasingly in in consumer spaces and
to accomplish the goal of articulating
on how strongly we believe that will
talk about our overall server strategy
give you a technology update from last
year and how the various technologies
has evolved on the Mac OS 10 platform
and in turmeric intermixed throughout
all of the content today we've got the
the server team from the software
engineering organization to walk you
through each of those will make a point
of identifying where there are areas
that we're just not going to focus great
opportunities for third-party solutions
in this whole internet connected world
in which we all live we will give you
hints in terms of what's happening to
the Mac left end server product line
how it relates from a technology
perspective to Mac os10 so the full
desktop operating system as i mentioned
developer opportunities and also very
essential and important is you need to
know where you can learn more
information there's a number of sessions
throughout the remaining days of the
conference that talk about some of the
specific key technologies and a little
bit more depth and you'll certainly have
an opportunity to meet the server team
with QA at the end of this session so
it's very clear that our strategy on the
server is to focus on delivering
capabilities that are truly innovative
that scale to meet the needs of an apple
network and what our McIntosh customers
are looking for and a strategy that is
centered and predicated on working with
established existing standards whenever
humanly possible we want to make sure
that our technology fits in we want to
make sure that we interoperate to a very
high degree we're not a big iron server
company from a hardware perspective
obviously we pre install and preload our
server software on top of special server
configurations of our of our Hardware
line but that design center is around a
powerful desktop computer platform it's
not a big iron server so that puts us in
a very very strong focus of meeting the
needs of department level workgroup
servers where administration ease-of-use
is one of the most important single
principles that guides the capabilities
and the features that we add into the
product making systems incredibly easy
to manage and to set up for a workgroup
you need to focus on meeting the
comprehensive needs of all of the
solutions and services that a given
network would expect and require and
clearly we don't live in a world where
there's a brand new customer and a brand
new building that doesn't have existing
wiring or existing servers to fit into
so interoperability again is a critical
critical reality and it's obviously a
goal to make integration of our
technology very very smooth and seamless
we do certainly get asked the question a
lot what is Apple doing building servers
and we absolutely passionately believe
that you can't deliver a great user
experience on the desktop if you don't
have a great server backing it up there
are areas where Apple can truly
understand how to optimize to meet the
needs of Mac users in areas where
competitive servers will just never have
that same degree of attention to detail
or polish or focus and we really believe
the mission at Apple hopefully you've
heard time and time again this week is
to build the best possible personal
computer and in in the 21st century and
certainly in the Mac os10 era that
requires having an incredibly strong
server platform so where are we going
well Apple share IP for many many many
years has been an unbelievably great
product for us it's been the number one
server in the education market pretty
much forever focuses on incredible ease
of use with great general purpose
services from file print web mail
service now with the current Apple share
IP product with Mac os10 we're going to
have an incredibly powerful platform as
you saw hopefully in the hardware
keynote Tuesday morning Mac OS 10 from
an infrastructure perspective is capable
of some incredibly great things we're
going to have an incredibly great file
system very modern Network environment
and as as was hinted in the in the
keynote an enablement of symmetric
multiprocessing all of these
capabilities when you add it to the
wealth of services that Apple share
provides leads us with an incredibly
strong platform that is powerful robust
scalable and is easy to administer and
manage also add on top of that the
innovative new capabilities that Mac OS
10 on server provides net booting the
easiest way to get a network say a
classroom in a lab set up with almost
zero administration quicktime streaming
quicktime is transforming how people
communicate over the web
a powerful engine and we've delivered
quicktime streaming with the macula 10
server product and then you take all of
that with the context of open source the
fact that the Darwin layer we ship the
source code to the very foundation of
the operating system and it allows and
enables certain opportunities to enhance
the system for you to take it in
directions that maybe we haven't had the
chance to prioritize and it makes for a
much more open and easy to work
environment for certainly as a developer
community you add all of that together
and you have what we believe and we're
very excited about is just an incredible
the best ever server that Apple has ever
produced so let me just spend a couple
minutes talking about some of the some
of the history and some of the lineage
behind our current servers and I'll
focus on maybe just two key areas one in
k-12 and then one very close to Apple
when Mac os10 server was introduced last
March there's a number of very powerful
capabilities but one that was incredibly
exciting very bleeding edge in terms of
a new technology introduction was net
food and we consciously picked a number
of test sites that we would be able to
evaluate and test the technology one of
those was a k-12 school district
hacienda de la fuente and the the
benefits of being able to take a server
and configure it with a version of the
mac OS operating system that had the
right set of extensions the right set of
preferences the right applications and
literally just walk in with an imac
connect up a network connection hold
down the end key and that imac would
boot across the network off of that
server enabled such incredible
incredible opportunities to manage large
scale networks in ways that weren't
possible before some of the anecdotes
about that introduction have been just
great the configuration of the server to
begin with and this is our first
generation server literally in two two
and a half
hours the entire network completely
configured up and running booting a
classroom the equivalent administration
for competitive operating systems and
server operating systems was two and a
half days on average and it really has
transformed the way that school district
can deliver content students are free to
roam from machine to machine to machine
their work environment is always there
from the administration perspective they
are able to keep their network
up-to-date with minimal investment it's
been a highlight in terms of how the
feature of technology can really change
the way that people teach and learn
using computers as a tool and we've seen
just incredible interest around the
world in the new technology it's
actually expanded well beyond the k-12
market even though that was our initial
primary focus another really amazing
capability with Mac os10 server in terms
of its robustness and the web objects
application server solution for which
there are 18 tracks here at the
conference this week it's just some of
the incredible things you can do in
terms of delivering web-based services
in concert with all the the other
technologies that the server provides a
couple interesting little anecdotes
about about the power of mac OS x server
in that environment the the apple store
is one of the leading ecommerce sites in
the web app and market doesn't not just
the computer technology market it is
incredibly reliable we we basically on
an annualized rate realize about a
billion dollars worth of revenue that is
sold through that store and that is
running completely on mac OS x server
it's an amazing thing to put the trust
of that much revenue in the hands of
technology but we believe incredibly
strongly that you have to these words
have been used before i eat your own dog
food we use mac OS x server for the
store we use it to deploy a number of
the I tools solutions we're using it for
internal networks and it's it's been
absolutely amazing technology and we're
investing very very heavily in a
let's walk through the basic
architecture hopefully this is now an
old boring slide the the definitive
architecture roadmap of Mac OS 10 where
we have the Darwin layer it's the
operating system plumbing strong
graphics architecture a variety of
application programming models and
obviously the user interface how does
the the server fit into this how do we
map the the key technologies and the
architectures and the layers that a
server platform would provide well take
that whole Mac os10 pitcher that you saw
previously and that's the Mac os10 layer
at the bottom of our server services
roadmap the important message is that
our server offerings start with the
desktop product and then we add to it we
have a number of services that will talk
to in a moment but there's two key bands
below and above are our individual
services and that's a common directory
architecture and a common administration
model from the services services
perspective file and print remains the
primary services that a workgroup
network expects to to be great and work
well especially in the Mac oriented
environment a wealth and portfolio of
Internet services from web through mail
and others comprehensive network
services and network solutions and
desktop management services desktop
management allows a k-12 school
administrator to create all of the
policies in order to effectively run a
lab of student driven machines are they
allowed to access cd-roms what
preferences should be managed on their
behalf which preferences are they
allowed to manage themselves and as I
mentioned a comprehensive administration
architecture so that we have the ease of
use and the simplicity of managing a
diverse set of server services so that's
a very high level perspective on the our
approach our architecture I'd like to
invite on stage Greg burns and he will
talk about the server solutions in the
internet
and it's all yours thanks again hi I'm
going to talk to you a bit about what
we're doing with additional services on
top of the mac OS 10 operating system
but before we get into that I want to
say one more thing about nachos 10 the
operating system itself and you've all
seen this diagram now I think several
times it has Darwin down at the bottom
and hopefully many of you heard that
Darwin is based in part on freebsd and
FreeBSD is not a newcomer to the
operating system world and there's a lot
of experience dolton to fifth previously
running as a server anybody here ever
heard of Yahoo everybody's all be
raising your hands yes how about hotmail
right probably heard of that as well
Microsoft hot meal both of these are
networks that run on freebsd so
previously has a good pedigree as a
server operating system and as part of
the core of mac OS 10 it provides a good
foundation for providing the server and
as kim said we're not a big iron company
but for our customers there's a strong
foundation there for building services
so in mac OS x server we are providing
some additional capabilities on top of
the core operating system the first one
is the directory services in the
directory architecture and the goal here
is that we want to have a common
directory that underlies all of the
services and applications using the
network in Mac OS 10 and we do this in
two parts through an API that any
application can use and this allows any
service any application whether it be on
the client or the server access network
resources and because they recognize
even though we provide the directory
with necklace and we recognize there are
the directories in the world and perhaps
you want to access nds or Kerberos or
some other directory so this API
provides for the ability to access other
directories and in addition to accessing
information in directories you also want
to be able to figure out whether or not
somebody is authorized to use resources
John Smith may be in a directory but you
also want to know if the client is in
fact John Smith and give him
authorization to access certain
resources so the directory API is
include a central authentication
authorities
wyd for that and together with the
network information and the central
authentication Authority you can manage
users centrally in your network and so
how does it fit together well the key
piece here is that green band in the
middle the directory access API this
exists both on the Mac os10 desktop and
on the server side and our software as
well as your solutions can sit on top of
this this is a public API we have
extensive documentation for it and it's
very easy to use very easy to get access
to any directory service through this
and underneath there you'll see that
there are several plugins there's an
open plug-in architecture and we use
that ourselves this is key we use it
ourselves for accessing net info so
we're eating our own dog food here and
all of the accesses to net info our
directory service are done through this
plug-in architecture we also provide
ldap as well but in addition if you have
a directory you can plug in there as
well the API as I said it exists on the
desktop as well as the server it's
utilized by all of our services in our
current mac OS 9 product Apple share IP
we have directory services in there but
they weren't you look universally
utilized by all of our services and
that's something we wanted to fix for
Mac OS 10 so now in Mac OS 10 all the
services are integrated with the core
directory architecture and as install it
is extensible it's a runtime plug-in
architecture so you can develop new
directory plugins that allow
applications to access new directories
without having to touch the code or
recompile those applications and we
ourselves will be delivering yet info
and LDAP support as part of the core
directory services in the desktop and on
the server on the server side in
addition to the API is for accessing the
directory we're also providing the night
fo directory service itself this is
Apple's distribute the distributed
replicated directory service and this
provides the ability to manage users and
resources on the network for a Mac os10
server we recognize again that there
will be clients that don't use net info
that want to access this directory and
so we will be providing ldap server
support as well to provide the same data
response to ldap queries in addition we
know that if we're using an external
directory such as ldap for instance if
you want services in mac OS tend to be
able to take advantage of this we have a
standard schema that you can enter into
the LDAP directory to allow accounts of
macro extent to log in and to utilize
services through this LDAP directory and
so that is all well defined in the API
so where's the opportunities for you in
all this well first and foremost if you
have a directory if you're a systems
developer or perhaps you're working at a
university you have a proprietary
directory a particular to your site we
want your directory to work with mac OS
10 so develop a plug-in for your
directory and secondly if your develop
developing an application whether it be
productivity application like email
calendars etc or vertical application
that you're doing directory access you
want to use the directory API and
finally of course managing directories
is a complex activity and so there is
opportunity or as well as applied
management utilities for directory
services there is an additional session
tomorrow that you want to be aware of if
you're interested in learning more about
the directory API is and developing to
them and that's going to be in this room
tomorrow at the same time and so if
you're interested in this please come
back tomorrow and hear more about the
directory API and how to develop plugins
and how to use the API for your
application ok so the directory of
course sits on both the client and the
server now we're going to talk
specifically about some stuff that is
part of the server and will be in the
server version of the mac OS 10
operating system and i'll tell you a
little bit about where we're going from
a technology standpoint file services
you know as jen mentioned is the core
staple of the server offerings and so
with file services we want to provide
basic high performance reliable services
for any client and in addition because
you know Sherlock is a core part of
apples technology we want to make sure
that the indexing support for Sherlock
is built into the file services as well
so again how does it fit together well
if you look this at the top you see a
variety of file services that
we want to support and Mac os10 server
and the key here is that these are all
shared key goal of math lesson servers
to bring all these services together and
to make the configuration and the
privilege management integrated sitting
on top of the mac OS 10 operating system
and the mac OS 10 filesystem and file
system privileges and of course all of
these services use the directory service
for user access and authentication so as
far as the services themselves of course
we have a SD and with ASP we've
introduced some changes to the protocol
so we have a new version 30 that adds
some more features for support of Mac OS
10 mac OS 10 desktop in addition we have
SMD sport that's something that is new
to the upcoming version of mac OS x
server or SMB sports based on samba i'm
sure a lot of you are familiar with that
it is the best third-party
implementation of windows file sport
around it's open source and it's been
well tested and so that's something that
we are going to be providing a mess with
observer as well and Mac Weston server
is Unix so underneath the hood in Darwin
there is unix down there and so there is
an SS in there as well and so that is
additional service it will be provided
for unix clients and of course ftp if
you have web browsers we want to
download across the internet and ftp of
course needs to be there as well and one
of the one of the shortcomings of the
current version of mac OS x server that
shipping today is that there are some
limitations in the servers on what file
systems you could export so we wanted to
remove that so services like a fe and
SMB in the future will be able to work
with the various file services that come
inside of mac OS 10 so whether it's HFS
or UF s etc you'll be able to manage
both of those and export both of those
through the various services and of
course as we saw in the picture all of
it is unified a key part of our overall
server offering is to make it very
simple to use and unified in terms of
the management and the performance is
something that we've been working hard
asked to make sure that it is very fast
and you've probably seen some of the
demos around SMG and you know we are
working hard to make sure that in the
future when S&C is available that will
be able to take advantage of that
and of course we leverage the
reliability of the necklace came
criminal as well and in addition we put
some work into making sure that there
are watchdog services and other
capabilities to keep the server up and
running in terms of developer
opportunities here the first thing you
should be aware of is that if you're a
nasty developer on any platform you
should support ASP 30 to provide full
support for Mac OS 10 secondly if you're
doing a directory plug-in that requires
more than just an username and password
for authentication then you'll want to
know about custom user access methods
that are part of the Apple share client
and this allows you to do complex
authentication dialog most cases you
won't need this but if you're doing
something really fancy is something you
should be aware of and finally there are
some extension API s and the capability
to extend some of these services that
you might be interested in as well print
services is the other staple of a server
offering and the key thing to be aware
of about printing on Mac OS 10 is that
there's a whole new print architecture
and so if you're involved in any way in
printing or print services this is
something that you're going to want to
learn a lot about and there's a couple
sessions about that coming up and I'll
point to those in a minute but another
thing as far as printing in mac OS x
server is that we've layered all of our
services on this print architecture so
in the past in mac OS 9 we had a
completely separate print service
completely separate for an architecture
that couldn't leverage anything on the
server side that had been done on the
client side and of course that was a
short coming we fix this so now as a
developer that you have a driver for it
took a particular type of printer it
will work on both the server and the
desktop so that's something that is good
news and you should be aware of that in
addition the printers that we support
right now the printing protocol support
postgres but if you want to do
converters for instance that would take
you to a raster printer on the back end
for the desktop that will also work on
the server so printing so we support
clients both Macintosh windows and unix
again the windows support comes from
samba so we get very robust support
there and the sport for the cues of
course right now is any mac OS 10 so
your printer but again as a developer
you have the opportunity to put in
postscript to raster converters and how
those work on the server as well and of
course because of the server you can
manage the queues and management jobs
over the network as part of our
integrated management utilities as far
as print opportunities for you as a
developer first and foremost if you have
a solution for publishing that runs on
unix you should port it to mac OS 10 so
if you're doing print services
publishing workflow rip what have you
there's an opportunity here it's very
easy to port these services to 10 and
you should get started and I know some
people already have products funny here
but if you don't it's time to get
started and the other thing here which I
mentioned is that driver for the client
side will also work for the server so it
makes you very easy the support
additional types of printers on the
server side as well as the desktop and
of course there's also the opportunity
to add additional management tools to
our server products as well okay so that
covers file and print now another key
area of our service offering is internet
services and Internet services of course
any core piece of any servers we have an
email services but we also have to
technology areas that are very important
to us here at apple and that's a quick
time of web objects and you've probably
heard a lot about those that's
conference here so far on the web side
course we want to have a web service
that provides website hosting whether it
be very simple something you want to get
up and running in minutes to very
sophisticated sites with virtual host a
service that has a full-featured web
server with high performance and of
course we need to be integrated with our
management solution and we need a sale
of sport application development
services like way of objects or like
server-side scripting and the way we do
this the forces with standard apache
those if you're familiar with the
current mac west end server know that it
includes standard apache it is the
standard of hashing module in fact if
you took the open-source apache and we
compiled it and substitute it in it
would work just fine so this is fully
standard Apache with a dynamic module
API and to that we've added server-side
scripting is available through standards
apache modules and
apache is well used throughout the
internet there's about almost 9 million
sites using apache now it's about sixty
percent of the internet but even though
it's while you it's not the highest
performing server out there and so we
put a lot of work into increasing the
performance and so that's an area where
we're going to continue to work on to
have a really high performance product
and in addition as some additional
things that are coming in the product
that we're looking into are of course
increasing the capabilities as far as
SSL any commerce and also as Sherlock
indexing for the site as a developer of
course because it is standard Apache
it's very easy for you to come in and
develop Apache module to enhance the
server to add new capabilities or to
bring modules onto the mac OS 10
platform and of course the opportunity
for management tools exists as well as
something it's very important website
management the other area that we're
looking at as far as core web services
obviously as email services they're very
widely used and very important and of
course as part of mac OS 10 it needs to
include and integrated and very easy to
use email server and of course the it
needs to scale as well and d high
performance and because we have a lot of
customers that run on sites that have
intermittent connections to the internet
we need to be able to support message
delivery remotely as well through
internet connections and the way we do
this of course is that we will be
providing an integrated mail server that
includes smtp for message delivery and
routing as well as pop and iono mailbox
services now this server will work
completely by itself independently but
because there are a lot of folks that
want to do more advanced scripting of
mail delivery and routing we have the
option to work with send mail for
delivery or for that matter any other
mail delivery agents can be configured
to do the mail routing as well and of
course like any mail server these days
it includes anti-spam and the wrong
message delivery capabilities that we
talked about another part of our mail
server is that it's integrated with the
directory so whether you're using our
own directory or whether you're using
ldap you can
code into the directory where the users
mailbox is located and what machine is
on and routing can be set up for complex
mail installations in that manner and
finally we have something that exists
today in Apple charity which will carry
forward and that's our IMAP
administration port which were people
wanting to do additional management
utilities makes it very easy to go in
through I met with an administrator
account and have full access to the
entire meal store all the accounts and
all the messages for management
reporting what have you so in terms of
developer opportunities well there's two
two sides here one is if you have an
application for instance with
server-side applications say web-based
email as an example make sure it runs on
10 the other is if you have a client
application make sure it runs well in
markets that are important to math
customers a good example here is a case
of 12 market where the mail users don't
have ownership of a particular machine
and need to move from machine to machine
to access their mail on the management
side of course there are a variety of
management tools that can be built
including account management dry mouth
management of routing through send mail
as well as log management or mail
tracking so let's move on the two of the
services that are core to us here at
Apple that first one is quicktime and
quicktime streaming server now quicktime
streaming server hopefully mostly you've
heard of this but in case you haven't it
delivers live media or on demand media
through QuickTime movies across the
Internet to hundreds or thousands of
customers so you can take an application
that's broadcasting live media say a
radio show or a video live video and
basically have the quicktime streaming
server deliver that to hundreds of
customers thousands of customers now or
you can take a QuickTime movie and hint
it and put it up on the server and that
movie can be accessed on demand and
stream to customers it's completely
standards-based it runs on the rtsp and
RTP ietf protocols so it is the only
fully standards-based streaming solution
out there and in addition to being a
server you can also relay other
broadcasts so basically you can set up a
relay of a brought a live broadcast or
you can set up multiple relays to scale
a very large configuration for thousands
and thousands and thousands of customers
each server itself is highly scalable so
whether you want to support a 56k modem
or a 28 8 modem or go to broadband dsl
or cable or even to internet and
megabits per second the server is
capable of handling that and at modem
speeds that can handle thousands with
connections and the other thing is
capable of doing this important is
usually over the Internet most
connections are done unicast you take a
connection from the server and you send
data to the client and that's a single
connection a single pipe so if you have
thousands of clients you have the
connections but the server itself is
also capable of handling multicast so if
you're in an area of the internet that
can handle multicast or if you're on an
intranet where it's configured you have
the ability to reach a lot more clients
with less network bandwidth the server
itself also has web administration
something that we've been working on and
of course if you haven't heard of it
hopefully you'll want to check it out
because it's fully open source some of
our competitors will charge about fifty
thousand dollars for a product like this
but for us it's free and so you can go
out and get the server you can get the
source today check it out it runs on
multiple platforms in addition to Mac
os10 server and so this is what we think
is the most expandable streaming server
around not only is it open source you
have full access to the source to do
whatever you want but it also has a
module a similar to Apache so different
developers can come up and add new
functions to the server without having
to learn the whole source base or
without having to get in each other's
way and this is important for you as a
developer is an opportunity because it
allows you to develop new features to
the server the streetly market is
expanding rapidly it's very rapidly
growing market there's a real
opportunity to get in here and add new
features but it allows you to add those
new features not only is open source but
also as modules which can be shipped
independently of a server and you can
sell those modules as binaries and sell
them for money so there's an opportunity
to go both ways here and certainly a
good developer opportunity and building
modules for the server and of course as
with rest of the service there's
additional options for management tools
certainly in the streaming area that's
an area where
lot of management's needed people want
to know who's watched what for how long
and land and so there's a lot of
opportunity for management tools there
to help out with clicked on streaming
server our weblogic services you may
have heard a lot about if you've been
going to some the session so I'm not
going to cover too much here today but
you know just so you know well objects
is our application server that provides
database content for web services at the
back end of a web server it runs on a
variety of platforms including antony
and solaris as well as mac OS x server
and in addition to providing the
application server itself there's a lot
of tools that allow you to develop the
services as well as manage them and
there's also objects that are there as
well that have been pre written to help
you get going quickly and you know
here's a good picture that shows you
sort of an example of how it all fits
together if you look in the upper
right-hand corner there you'll see the
web browser basically going through the
web server into web objects which
brokers access to data whether the data
is in a database or other data source or
you can use the Java clients that avi
demo done Monday to go into web objects
directly access the same data so you
know the point here is that there's
tremendous opportunity and web objects
and pretty much any web application you
want to build on the server side you can
do it without webobjects you know there
are 18 sessions going on we have one
every time every day so if you have
heard about well objects when you're
interested hopefully you've been to some
of those sessions and if you haven't you
should definitely check them out between
now and Friday because there is a lot of
opportunities or four years developers
okay lastly I want to talk just briefly
about network services network services
are another piece of the offering that
we have a macro spend server and that
includes some of the lower layer
networking capabilities that you use to
set up a network and servers themselves
and these are things like DNS which are
used for setting up to make domain name
servers and of course there this is unix
we're leveraging bind and and we also
have dhcp for address assignment as well
as SLT which does a dynamic name lookup
it's very similar to Apple talks
dynamics name lookup but it's a protocol
that was designed
specifically for tcp by a standards body
and all of these are available or will
be available through mac OS x server and
of course we have them integrated with a
server offering themselves so that gives
you kind of overview of where we're
going with some of the internet in the
file and print services and so now i
want to bring up Bob Murphy who's going
to talk a bit more about our desktop
management and the capabilities and
technology there okay thank you Greg as
you mentioned my name is Bob Murphy I
manage an engineering group here at
Apple that's responsible for Macintosh
manager and network assistant two
components of the server program as well
as multiple users which is a component
of Mac OS 9 today we will be talking
about multiple users but instead
focusing on those pieces of the server
product the right direction here as Greg
mentioned we'll talk about desktop
management services today I'll also
touch briefly on the administration
piece before turning it back over to Ken
for him to close so I'd like to thank
you for this opportunity to get a chance
to tell you about the things that my
team and I work on at Apple and these
are some of the key pieces that were
involved with Macintosh manager network
assistant and net food just to kind of
get an idea how many of you are familiar
i've worked with macintosh manage i see
a show of hands
so that makes me feel good how about
network assistant oh great we've got a
lot of experience in net who does
anybody working with a net boot
installation great I'm feeling really
good about this well hopefully hopefully
it's not always bad as you you know sad
to be but for those of you who aren't
familiar with Macintosh manager just a
brief overview Macintosh manager is a
product that has a server component as
well as a client component it really
provides what we like to think of as two
key pieces of functionality we thought
we could talk about the virtual desktop
the ability to move preferences and
bookmarks can mention them some in the
in the success story where we have the
ability to move things around to take
advantage of people going to different
machines it also provides a piece of
what we call a resource policy which
restricts access to certain resources is
defined by the administrator for example
whether or not people can go to the
chooser what applications they can
launch so basically kind of configure
the experience that the user has on
their desktop machines network assistant
is is not it does not require a server
but it is bundled as part of the product
because it is a very useful
administrative tool what network
assistant does there's an administrative
work station as well as a client
component and again we can break Network
assistant down into two key pieces one
we like to think of as interaction it
gives you the ability to to communicate
with the user either through text
chatting or through sharing screens or
through controlling screens to large
numbers of users the second piece we
like to consider is an administrative
maintenance component of the product
which allows the user to configure
workstations similar to their own or to
manage settings on remote workstations
the third component net food is a tool
to help make administrators life easier
basically around the management of the
client OS what we do is we provide a
server based OS image that then remote
clients can boot so we have
administration management
BOS in one central location what I'd
like to talk about are some of the goals
that we have for Macintosh manager in
the future releases and I think primary
primarily through our efforts of
simplification what we found is there's
a great increase in the number of
desktop machines without a corresponding
increase in administrators to manage and
take care of those so anything that we
can do any work that we can do to
simplify that experience and make it
easier for administrators to work with
we want to try to accomplish McIntosh
manager has been very close we had our
own proprietary database we didn't give
access the login screen we need to work
to make it more open and more available
for developers to interact with the
products we need to start moving in a
direction and that's a goal of ours does
that take care of all the hisses guys
here the top simplify the user
experience just as for administrators we
want to try to simplify it we also need
to simplify offer the users because when
we simplify for the users we went all
around prepare for mac OS 10 key
initiative for all of us our server
components are Mac os10 they work on Mac
OS 10 today what we need to do is start
moving our client components to Mac OS
10 so we have some some ability to
provide Macintosh manager functionality
there also compatibility compatibility
is also a big issue for us we are very
large in education education keeps a
large amount of legacy hardware
therefore we have to provide support
fairly far back in the clientele s
specifics Greg talked about directory
services so we're going to take
advantage of that in the past we had our
own set of users and groups we had our
own passwords all the administrators had
to manage we're now going to take
advantage of directory services so
there's a single user user and group
setting and passwords administrator one
central location
Thanks the other piece that we've been
asked for consistently is a way to plug
into our to login screen and threw out
on occasion very popular in that arena
has been Kerberos so by taking advantage
of the directory we're going to be able
to take advantage of Kerberos plugins
it's are written to provide an
alternative method of authentication I
think I've got more class than hisses
now okay maybe not Mac os10 user home
directory as I talked about having is I
talked about preparing for mac OS 10 one
of the things that we want to do is
share the same storage space so that
when a user is working on their eight or
nine machine and they move to a mac OS
10 machine they still have access to
their files they're stored in the same
home directory which we see it as part
of moving our transition to Mac OS 10 in
addition we're also going to store
application preferences in that home
directory so carbon applications that
are still using the old preference
management methods of storing
preferences in the preferences folder
will get their preferences on Mac OS 10
machines so we're starting to move to
that direction in terms of the virtual
desktop experience the resource policy
is not not happening right away as I
mentioned earlier our server processes
on Mac OS 10 we're now moving our admin
application to carbon which will make it
available on Mac OS 9 as well as Mac OS
10 and the support will still continue
to support back to client 761
just just a quick overview basically you
see in the center is the server the
directory services are below us Mac
manager will still have a server process
as well as will work with the AP server
process the directory database users in
groups that will be stored in one
central location we will still plan on
storing some information or databases we
weren't able to do a full transition
over in the near term we do want to work
on that longer term so we no longer have
this proprietary set of information to
Mac manager so will be will be moving
that direction let's let's get off Mac
manager for a while hopefully network
assistant is enough controversial just a
cute a few key things about network
assistant I think it could really all be
summed up is in the first point is
support for the future and that means
moving to Mac os10 again the simplicity
make it easy to use as it is today and
continue to advance on that to make it
easy to use and again support
compatibility the key detail or the key
thing that we're working on for the next
release is to provide a full-featured
client for mac OS 10 machines so that's
that's really the just of what we're
working on at this point we will have a
mac OS 10 admin application but we're
also going to even as we move to 10 we
understand there's still lots of 89
machines out there so we want to provide
the administrator the ability to manage
the machines no matter whether they're
eight nine or ten machines so that's
kind of where we're headed there we
don't support 761 right now yeah would
it's hard though it's really hard for
that that piece so that kind of covers
those three components are those two
components now let's move on to net food
I think net booth is really exciting
it's a really cool technology I'm really
excited about what's going to happen
going forward but basically what it does
it kind of ties to that theme that I
think the Ken mentioned and Greg also is
this too simplified is to make it easier
for administrators to take care of
things you know because you've got all
these client machine
and you're not getting any more
administrators to take care of them so
what we do is we provide a single
location on a server to manage the OS
this makes it protected from user
modification many times they may be able
to modify it during the course of their
operation but with a simple reboot
they're back to where they started so
you have a protected OS desktop OS has
become trivial and actually in addition
to that some installation of software
becomes trivial you installed in one
place you restart your clients your
installed so I think this is a real big
win for administrators it is our goal to
work with standard unmodified mac OS s
any mac OS that is released should
automatically support net booting and be
installable and usable in your network
and we understand the performance is
important also that it must be
comparable to local this so the users
don't know that they're working on that
boot machine versus a local boot machine
some of the details some of the details
of the net butene is working on they
want to make it work and more robust
network so can it's going to interact
with standard dhcp servers great it'll
go the other the other neat thing is
supporting multiple boot images per
server
[Applause]
okay this is exciting especially in
those situations where you have
different languages a machine may be
used in a multilingual setting you want
to provide the ability to boot in French
or German or Spanish or Japanese or any
language that you that you would like in
addition you can provide a modified OS
it doesn't need to be language
difference it could be other things
installed that you want to make
available to the user okay and it's
going to be highly scalable we're moving
to make it more scalable the clients
will auto sense which server has the
least activity and then it will go
netboot from that machine I guess the
key implication we can think of for
developers around that boot is you know
you don't have a persistent OS as soon
as it's rebooted it's gone if Mac
managers involved you can still manage
preferences and some of the system
settings but you have to presume that
are assuming that there is a
non-persistent mac OS simple diagram
again you see now with the addition of
multiple servers multiple that multiple
netboot servers you can see in the
bottom you have different subnets net1 a
to the clients will interact and go
ahead and just boot right off whatever
server has the most availability so I
think that that's irrelevant I think
that's a real real opportunity so I just
want to touch briefly on administration
the final block in our diagram before I
turn it over to can from an
administration perspective the goals I
think the goals here again are similar
its simplicity to make it easy to use to
make it easy for the administrator to
get in and do the work that they need to
do and get out so simplicity one of the
goals for that is to move to one
application to not have to go look
around for a whole bunch of applications
we want to try to meet at to one central
place remote or local we understand that
everybody's mobile right so we need to
be able to provide administration
anywhere on the Internet that's critical
also and then the final point very easy
to use just echoes that theme once again
some of the details it will be a
client-server architecture the
administrative application and what this
provides is the second bullet there the
admin server will update
clients as needed for example if the
server that you're trying to maintain
has the component that you don't have
the administrative piece for it'll
automatically provide that for you so
you can go maintain that feature first
bullet it'll be carbon also so Mac OS 9
and Mac OS 10 as well as aqua will be
ocwen affair interface will support an
SL and SLP for locating servers as well
as being able to administer multiple
servers and then the final piece that
we're trying to focus on is being able
to do some limited set of web
administration so with that I think I've
completed the section and I'd like to
turn it back over to Ken to close thank
you so to amplify a couple of points
that Bob made in particular how many
people in the audience produce
client-side applications that fit into
the server environment Wow very few well
for the one hand that I saw him up no we
want to make sure that everybody takes
out of this session and understanding
that the Macintosh is a platform is a
combination of an incredibly great
desktop platform the the Mac the Mac OS
operating system plus comprehensive set
of server solutions we want to make sure
that we're able to run our legacy of
existing applications exciting new
applications all across network that
span different types of protocols
different sorts of topologies different
collection of services and what we're
presenting today is a roadmap and an
approach to our strategy to the server
obviously building upon all of the
strengths all of the benefits of Mac OS
10 and layering on top of that the
consistency of directory access through
a number of comprehensive services with
a simplified unified administration
model there's some subtleties to the
presentation today one is that we've
been listening very very carefully to
the needs of customers in the education
space both k12 and higher education are
incredibly important markets for us and
we understand the complexities and the
difficulties of integrating technology
and an invite
especially in k-12 we're literally
computers never get replaced you add new
technology and the applications that
k-12 educators rely on our at times 56
years old not necessarily programmed to
the inside McIntosh pristine guidelines
and in this environment we're trying to
plow forward and we're trying to move
the technology up to a new level to
enable new types of capabilities we're
very much active in listening to the
needs of of those communities and making
our products really really great you've
heard that there's a variety of
opportunities for developers in this
server environment with the mac of 10
server product certainly there's a
wealth of plugins a directory service is
central it's essential to the the
integration the interoperability of this
technology and we're going to focus on a
small set is ample opportunity for a
variety a coupler mentioned here the
whole notion of management and control
of the server environment people need to
be able to understand how the technology
is being used from a scalability
perspective maybe you start with a small
number of servers are you able to
actually analyze how the technology is
being used so you can most efficiently
plan your next year investments in do
focus on more bandwidth or do you need
more scalability for the file server so
there's huge opportunities for producing
administration console utilities log
analysis how the server has been used
from his historical perspective a
variety of services for guaranteeing
always on availability of the server
from a auto restart and remote
management perspective backup and
restore is always an interesting an
important opportunity the needs backup
scale from you know very very large
enterprise grade environments where
large customers have investments in a
backup technology all the way down to
the much smaller
you know single user single
administrator tape driver peripheral
model so there's a wealth of
opportunities that in there as well on
the web and application space certainly
Apache is just in an incredible web
server technology the number of plugins
that turn Apache into an unbelievably
powerful platform is open for anybody to
entertain an exercise with the Mac os10
server product and we can't say
webobjects loudly enough more often this
is some of the greatest application
server technology that the world has
ever seen and it creates some incredible
opportunities for adding value add
application services on top of this very
powerful platform terms of additions and
add-ons to the server from a hardware
perspective obviously raid solutions
enable the greater degree of scalability
and performance for the disk subsystem
large storage arrays etc power
management are all examples of how the
server product can be enhanced beyond
the confines of our desktop a hardware
design and in the creative professional
markets certainly there's incredible
opportunities for very sophisticated
higher-end print management and workflow
solutions the print industry is
obviously being transformed by the
greater flexibilities and efficiencies
that the Internet has enabled and the
publishing workflow is one that is ripe
for incredible are opportunities for
adding value to the server product
you